wiki/1

---
title = StakeFi Archetypes

published = 2024-03-08T16:00:00-08:00
updated   = 2024-03-22T12:56:23-07:00

[author]
name = Charles Iliya Krempeaux
link = http://reiver.link/
---

This document is a distillation of the **social-systems research** I did on the **StakeFi** social system.

This analysis is meant to be **descriptive**.
I.e., it is trying to list out what is there.
It is not a statement of what should or shouldn't be there.
And is neither an endorsement or a condemnation of anything that is there.
It is **description** of what seems to be observed.

⚠️ This document tries to use "neutral" language in its descriptions.

§ What Are Archetypes

> archetypes (noun): an idealized model of a person or thing.

From the point-of-view of **social-systems research** — an **archetype** is a model of some aspect of a person or things that is shared among many people or thigns.

(
UX people tend to call "**archetypes**": "**personas**".
And marketers tend to call "**archetypes**": "**segments**".
In practice, all 3 of these are very similar concepts.
)

Some examples of (non-StakeFi specific) archetypes include:

• father,
• mother,
• son,
• daughter
• brother,
• sister,
• husband,
• wife,
• gardener,
• farmer,
• computer programmer,
• grocery store cashier,
• CEO,
• CTO,
• //etc//.

You can also probably already see that an individual could express more than one **archetype**.
For example — a single individual could be —
a //father//,
a //husband//,
a //brother//,
a //son//,
a //CTO//, and
a //computer programmer// **at the same time** during a certain span of their life.

The archetypes an individual expresses could also change over their life-time too.
For example — before someone has a child, they wouldn't be a //father// or a //mother// yet; but after they have a child, they would (also) become a //father//, or a //mother// (in addition to whatever other archetypes they express).

§ Archetypes

This document includes **archetypes** relevant that I have deemed "important" to **StakeFi**.

§§ Fund Raiser

One **StakeFi** **archetype** is the **fund raiser**.

§§ Backer

One **StakeFi** **archetype** is the **backer**.
