wiki/1

~~~
title = YieldFi Archetypes

published = 2024-03-08T16:00:00-08:00
updated   = 2024-04-01T14:57:23-07:00

author.name = Charles Iliya Krempeaux
~~~

This document is a distillation of the **social-systems research** I did on the **YieldFi** social-system.

This analysis is meant to be **descriptive**.
I.e., it is trying to list out what is there.
It is not a statement of what should or shouldn't be there.
And is neither an endorsement or a condemnation of anything that is there.
It is **description** of what seems to be observed.

⚠️ This document tries to use "neutral" language in its descriptions.

§ What Are Archetypes

> archetypes (noun): an idealized model of a person or thing.

From the point-of-view of **social-systems research** — an **archetype** is a model of some aspect of a person or things that is shared among many people or thigns.

(
UX people tend to call "**archetypes**": "**personas**".
And marketers tend to call "**archetypes**": "**segments**".
In practice, all 3 of these are very similar concepts.
)

Some examples of (non-YieldFi specific) archetypes include:

• father,
• mother,
• son,
• daughter
• brother,
• sister,
• husband,
• wife,
• gardener,
• farmer,
• computer programmer,
• grocery store cashier,
• CEO,
• CTO,
• //etc//.

You can also probably already see that an individual could express more than one **archetype**.
For example — a single individual could be —
a //father//,
a //husband//,
a //brother//,
a //son//,
a //CTO//, and
a //computer programmer// **at the same time** during a certain span of their life.

The archetypes an individual expresses could also change over their life-time too.
For example — before someone has a child, they wouldn't be a //father// or a //mother// yet; but after they have a child, they would (also) become a //father//, or a //mother// (in addition to whatever other archetypes they express).

§ Archetypes

This document includes **archetypes** relevant that I have deemed "important" to **YieldFi**.

§§ Backer

One //YieldFi// archetype is the **backer**.

A **backer** is someone who is willing to fund the project, product, or anything else from the **fund raiser** (archetype).

With YieldFi, **backing** a project is different than crowd-funding platforms.
With crowd-funding platforms, typically the **backer** gives the **fund raiser** fiat currency.
With YieldFi, the **backer** //lends// (rather than //gives//) the **fund raiser** something (such a cryptocurreny, NFTs, tokens, etc).
The **fund raiser** then uses this principal (that was lent to them) to //stake//.
This staking produces a //yield//.
The **fund raiser** keeps the //yield// and gives the **backer** back their principal.

There are different types of **backers** —

• **degen**,
• **disengaged investor**,
• **fan backer**,

§§ Degen

One //YieldFi// archetype is the **degen**.

(The word “degen” is a form of slang, and is derived from the word “degenerate”.)

The **degen** is a type of //short-term// investor.

The **degen** is attracted to investments that pay-off within 6 months to 1 year — or less, if possible.

What a **degen** invests in is —

• affected by //memes//, and
• affected by **influencers** (archetype).

The **degen** minimum bar for investing, is —

• so-so technology,
• good marketing.

(Marketing in this context includes //meme'ing//.)

§§ Fund Raiser

One //YieldFi// archetype is the **fund raiser**.

§§ Influencer

One //YieldFi// archetype is the **influencer**.

An **influencer** (in this context) is someone with an audience of people who pay attention to them.

Often **influencers** engage with their audience —

• on micro-blogging platformats such as Twitter, Farcaster, the Fediverse,
• on video platformats such as YouTube, and
• within group chat applications such as Disord.

An **influencer** is sometimes called an “key opinion leader” or (and more often) a “KOL” (for short).

When marketers talk about **influencers**, it is often in the context of //influencer marketing//.

When behavioral researchers talk about **influencers** they tend //not// to call them //influencers// but instead often call them //role models// or just //models//, in the context of //social learning//.
